---
title: '32'
date: 2021-06-16 12:00:00 +08:00
categories:
- personal
---

I’m turning 32 today. To practice having a heart of gratitude, I thought I’d make a list of 32 things I’m grateful for.

Here they are:

 1. Grace and mercy from God

 2. The love of and support from my family and friends

 3. A father who has been very generous with me

 4. A mother who never fails to show she cares for me

 5. A sister who patiently listens to me rant all the time

 6. A brother who never hesitates to do acts of service

 7. Another brother who never hesitates to do acts of service

 8. Close friends who accept me for who I am

 9. A business partner who is also a good friend

10. A Bible counselor who helps me in my walk with God

11. A Discipleship group which provides Godly fellowship

12. The mental health professionals who have helped me with my mental health

13. A part-time job with bosses and co-workers who are nice

14. Having freelance clients who trust me

15. Having freelance work that interests me

16. Being able to help people at [Three Things Daily](http://threethingsdaily.xyz)

17. Being able to empower people at [ToughLadies](http://shoptoughladies.com)

18. Being able to delight people at [World Bites](http://worldbites.ph)

19. Having skills like being able to code, do marketing, and write

20. The opportunity to have gone to good schools (AdDU, Pisay SMC, and UPD) and the people there who have helped me grow as a person, not just intellectually

21. The opportunity to be employed over the years and getting the chance to hone my skills

22. Our family business which is able to give livelihood to other people

23. Lessons learned over the years that make me a better person

24. The opportunity to have travelled (one of my hobbies) in more than 10 countries

25. The opportunity to have experienced living abroad in Japan

26. Things not meant for me didn’t work out and redirected me to something better (e.g. law school, being an English teacher, etc.)

27. Spinning and how it’s the only exercise that I’ve ever enjoyed

28. *Lord of the Rings* and how it got me into reading and into sci-fi/fantasy

29. Books and articles in general and how I’ve learned from them

30. Craft beer, especially IPAs

31. Technology, especially no-code tools like Adalo

32. Having had my first dose of coronavirus vaccine (and will be getting my second dose soon)

It took me some time, but I found it easy to look for things I’ve been grateful for over the years. I’ve been blessed with so much. I can go beyond 32, but I want to focus on these things for now.